README.md, before:

# lms-common-custom-lambda-dependencies
A repo where common custom dependencies for the LMS backend are kept. The intent is to allow the LMS backend lambdas to use this library as a dependency by referencing its GitHub repo URL.

Following is a list and description of available modules.

# Calculate leave days (calculate-leave-days.js)
This module exposes a few functions that assist in determining the number of days, weekend days and public holidays given a date range.

This module uses `dayjs` to make it easier to work with dates and times.

## Configuration

This module, in cases of public holidays, relies on an external provider. The first iteration integrates with Google Calendar API and, thus, requires a Google Calendar API key. This key should be configured as an environment variable called `GOOGLE_CALENDAR_API_KEY`.

An attempt was made to have the module fail "gracefully." When the above-mentioned key is not configured, an error will be logged in the console, and, rather than raising an exception, a default value will be returned -- in the case of number of days, 0; in the case of a list of dates, an empty list.

## Testing

This module uses Jest for testing. Tests should be placed in `/jest-tests/`

## Public members

### calculateTotalDays(start, end)

This function takes a start and end date and calculates the total number of days between (no deduction of weekends or public holidays). If the start and end dates are the same, the total is 1. E.g.,
- 2024-06-27 - 2024-07-27 = 1 day
- 2024-06-27 - 2024-07-27 = 31 days
- 2024-07-27 - 2024-08-27 = 32 days

This function doesn't integrate with any external providers.

### calculateWeekendDays(start, end)

This function takes start and end dates and calculates the total number of weekend days between.

This function doesn't integrate with any external providers.

## calculatePublicHolidaysAsync(start, end)

This function attempts to calculate the total number of public holidays that fall on work days between a given start and end date.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

### calculateTotalLeaveDaysAsync(start, end)

This function takes start and end dates and attmpts to calculate the total number of actual leave days; i.e., calculates the total number of days, minus weekend days, minus public holidays.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

### getPublicHolidayDates(start, end)

This function returns a list of public holiday dates as UTC.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

Commit message:

implement api key secret - add aws sdk dependency - declare function to read secret value - implement validation of required env vars
misc
- define google api url elements as global constants and refactor accordingly
- do not export "private" members
- update readme
- include launch.json for convenience
- add jest globals to control integration tests
- simplify jest test pattern

README.md, after:

# lms-common-custom-lambda-dependencies
A repo where common custom dependencies for the LMS backend are kept. The intent is to allow the LMS backend lambdas to use this library as a dependency by referencing its GitHub repo URL.

Following is a list and description of available modules.

---

# Calculate leave days ([calculate-leave-days.js](calculate-leave-days.js))
This module exposes a few functions that assist in determining the number of days, weekend days and public holidays given a date range.

This module uses `dayjs` to make it easier to work with dates and times.

## Configuration

This module, in cases of public holidays, relies on an external provider. The first iteration integrates with Google Calendar API and, thus, requires a Google Calendar API key. This key is meant to be read from AWS Secrets Manager, and there are two environment variables that enable this:
1. `GOOGLE_CALENDAR_API_KEY_SECRET_NAME`: The ID of the secret that holds the API key JSON object; e.g., `calendar_api`.
2. `SECRET_VALUE_KEY`: The JSON object key that identifies the API key; e.g., `calendarAPI`.

The above-mentioned values should be configured in the context of the calling lambda.

An attempt was made to have the module fail "gracefully." When the above-mentioned key is not configured, an error will be logged in the console, and, rather than raising an exception, a default value will be returned -- in the case of number of days, 0; in the case of a list of dates, an empty list.

## Testing

This module uses Jest for testing. Tests should be placed in `/jest-tests/`

## Private members

<mark>NOTE: These functions is not exposed in the exports by default, as it's mostly used internally by the module. But I do it on an ad-hoc basis when I'm running unit & E2E testing</mark>

Testing of private members are controlled by two mechanisms:
1. Switches in [jest.config.js](jest.config.js) for each individual private member.
2. Commenting the exporting of said members in the module file

### readSecretValue(secretName)

This function takes a secret ID (name) as a parameter, reads and parses an AWS secret via Secrets Manager SDK, and returns the value as a string.

An important assumption to be aware of is that the secret value is formatted as a stringified JSON object. This function will parse the raw JSON string into an object and then use an environment variable `SECRET_VALUE_KEY` configured in the calling context to identify and extract the value of this key in the parsed JSON object.

### calculateTotalDays(start, end)

This function takes a start and end date and calculates the total number of days between (no deduction of weekends or public holidays). If the start and end dates are the same, the total is 1. E.g.,
- 2024-06-27 - 2024-07-27 = 1 day
- 2024-06-27 - 2024-07-27 = 31 days
- 2024-07-27 - 2024-08-27 = 32 days

This function doesn't integrate with any external providers.

### calculateWeekendDays(start, end)

This function takes start and end dates and calculates the total number of weekend days between.

This function doesn't integrate with any external providers.

### calculatePublicHolidaysAsync(start, end)

This function attempts to calculate the total number of public holidays that fall on work days between a given start and end date.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

## Public members

### calculateTotalLeaveDaysAsync(start, end)

This function takes start and end dates and attmpts to calculate the total number of actual leave days; i.e., calculates the total number of days, minus weekend days, minus public holidays.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

### getPublicHolidayDates(start, end)

This function returns a list of public holiday dates as UTC.

This function integrates with an external provider, so please ensure proper configuration before use.

---
